Subcommunity Spotlight: UK Carpentry Community (#684)
carpentries/new-website: content/posts/2026/06/UK_Carpentries_Spotlight.md

- sign-in, introductions, and an icebreaker
- a guest speaker or presentation on a topic of interest
- news, workshop updates and announcements from members
- a slot for Carpentries instructor training checkout (allowing new instructors to fulfil their community discussion requirement)

## Key Topics and Themes Over the Years

### Workshop Delivery and Pedagogy

Members have shared experiences running Software Carpentry, Data Carpentry, and Library Carpentry workshops across UK institutions. In late 2022, STFC's Patrick Austin presented on teaching a large-scale hybrid "Intermediate Research Software Development in Python" course involving 20 in-person and 21 online attendees, spread across 5 weeks, with 6 instructors and 12 helpers — sharing hard-won lessons about hybrid delivery challenges. 

### Lesson Development

A recurring theme has been developing and improving Carpentries lesson materials. By December 2024, Aleks Nenadic announced that the intermediate-level Python training materials had been marked as stable and published on Zenodo — a process that took around three years, illustrating how long quality lesson development takes. 

### Lesson Language Translation

> Olexandr Konovalov, UK-based instructor, led a project to translate the Python Carpentries lesson into Ukrainian, achieving 100% translation of the Python lesson, originally with plans to translate shell, Git, and GAP lessons using the Transifex platform — following a similar infrastructure previously used for Spanish translations. However, since 2024, the translation infrastructure has been migrated to [CrowdIn](https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/05/software-carpentries-translation-efforts-in-ukrainian) and various lessons across our core curriculum are in the process of being translated. Olexandr Konovalov also ran 6 pilot training events in Ukrainian for Git during 2023-2025 and ran the first full [2-day online workshop in Ukraine](https://olexandr-konovalov.github.io/posts/2026/02/24/resilient-carpentries) in January 2026 - making Ukraine the 72nd country in the world hosting The Carpentries workshops.

Reviewer: Thank you for mentioning me here, @elletjies! Some suggestions:

1) "Olexandr Konovalov also ran 6 pilot training..." -> "Olexandr Konovalov together with other Ukrainian Carpentries Community members also ran 6 pilot training..."

2) The statistics on translation is outdated and varied - we maintain at at https://ukrainian-carpentries.github.io/en/ the full list of what is in the works. I will think of some rephrasing.

Author: @olexandr-konovalov thanks so much for these suggestions! Please feel free to add it as a PR, and I will merge it. Blog post is still in the draft phase :)

Reviewer: @elletjies will do - perhaps not right now. Do you suggest a PR to https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/tree/elletjies- branch?

Pleas also see [our poster](https://pure.st-andrews.ac.uk/ws/portalfiles/portal/334721458/CS_Doors_Open_2026_Carpentries_Poster.pdf) - I will be happy to make an updated map of all UK workshops for this post, and it also has some end-of-April stats for Ukrainian translations and their teaching.

Author: @olexandr-konovalov, you can make the changes directly here, and if I have it right, it will make a new PR/suggestion. The poster looks great - we can link it in the text as well.

Author: @olexandr-konovalov, we would like to publish this blog post soon :) Have you looked at the suggestions you wanted to make?

- news, workshop updates and announcements from members.
- a slot for Carpentries Instructor Training checkout (allowing new Instructors to fulfil their [Get Involved](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/checkout.html#getinvolved) checkout requirement).

## Key Topics and Themes Over the Years

### Workshop Delivery and Pedagogy

Members have shared experiences running Software Carpentry, Data Carpentry, and Library Carpentry workshops across UK institutions. In late 2022, STFC's Patrick Austin presented on teaching a large-scale hybrid "Intermediate Research Software Development in Python" course with 20 in-person and 21 online attendees, spread over 5 weeks, and 6 Instructors and 12 helpers — sharing hard-won lessons about hybrid delivery challenges. 

### Lesson Development

A recurring theme has been developing and improving Carpentries lesson materials. By December 2024, Aleks Nenadic announced that the intermediate-level Python training materials had been marked as stable and published on Zenodo — a process that took around three years, illustrating how long quality lesson development takes. 

### Lesson Language Translation

> Olexandr Konovalov, a UK-based instructor, led a project to translate the Python Carpentries lesson into Ukrainian, achieving 100% translation of the lesson. Originally, plans were to translate the shell, Git, and GAP lessons using the Transifex platform — following a similar infrastructure previously used for Spanish translations. However, since 2024, the translation infrastructure has been migrated to [Crowdin](https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/05/software-carpentries-translation-efforts-in-ukrainian), and various lessons across our core curriculum are being translated. Olexandr Konovalov also ran 6 pilot training events in Ukrainian for Git during 2023-2025 and ran the first full [2-day online workshop in Ukraine](https://olexandr-konovalov.github.io/posts/2026/02/24/resilient-carpentries) in January 2026 - making Ukraine the 72nd country in the world hosting The Carpentries workshops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Olexandr Konovalov, a UK-based instructor, established and coordinates the [Ukrainian Carpentries Community](https://ukrainian-carpentries.github.io/en/). Originally, plans were to translate the Unix shell, Git, Python, and also the Carpentries Incubator GAP lesson using the Transifex platform — following a similar infrastructure previously used for Spanish translations. Since 2024, the translation infrastructure has been migrated to [Crowdin](https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/05/software-carpentries-translation-efforts-in-ukrainian). Various lessons are being translated, with their status reported [here](https://ukrainian-carpentries.github.io/en/). Olexandr Konovalov together with other Ukrainian Carpentries Community members also ran 6 pilot training events in Ukrainian for Git during 2023-2025 and the first full [2-day online workshop in Ukraine](https://olexandr-konovalov.github.io/posts/2026/02/24/resilient-carpentries) in January 2026 - making Ukraine the 72nd country in the world hosting The Carpentries workshops.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most recently, together with Lucia Michielin (also a UK-based instructor) and Yanina Bellini Saibene, Olexandr authored the chapter ["Lost in Translation: Complexities and Good Practices of Translating Coding-Based Teaching Materials Across Multiple Human Languages"](https://teaching-programming.github.io/book/C24_lost-in-translation.html) in the open access book ["Teaching Programming Across Disciplines"](https://teaching-programming.github.io/book/).

```

Reviewer: @elletjies @OscarSiba what about the following addition?
